Mern stands for MongoDB,Express,React,Node  after the four key technologies that make up the stack that is used for easier 
the stack that is used for easier and faster deployment of full - stack web applications
MongoDB - document database
Express - Node.js web framework 
React(.js) -- a client side javascript library
Node(.js) -- the premier Javascript web server

how does the mern stack work?
the mern architeture allows you to easily construct a 3-tier  architeture 
(front end ,backend,database) entirely using javascript and json.

MongoDB

-->NoSQL database used for high - volume data storage
-->Open-source document -- oriented database
-->It stores data in json format
-->Can be easily used with node.
--->MongoDB uses BSON  to query database
--> Documents containing key-value pairs are the basic units of data in MongoDb

Node.js
-> node.js allows you to run javascript on the server
-->It is free & open source ,written in c++.
Node.js runs single-threaded,non-blocking
,asnchronous programming ,which is very memory efficient.

where to use nodeJS?

back-end services such as APIs
highly scalable,data-intensive and real-time apps.
I/O bounds applications
single page applications

where not to use NodeJS?
node.js is not used in CPU - intensive apps which requires calculations done by CPU.

ExpressJS

flexible node.js framework that provides robust set of features for web and mobile application.
It provides easy routing of requests based on HTTP methods and urls
It allows to set up middlewares to respond to HTTpRequests.
Allows to dynamically render HTML pages based on passing arguments to templates

ReactJS

A javascript library  for building user interfaces for web and mobile applications
react is used to build single page applications.
react allows us to create reusable UI components
react-router to handle the front end routing

Why react?

JSX(javascript xml) makes it easier and simpler to write treact components.
reactJS supports components.These components promote code reusability and make the overall
web application easier to understand and debug.


















